So consider our example again.
Suppose that n was 16 rather than 100.
Then our test statistic remains the same.
It's the sample mean minus
the hypothesized mean,
mean where remember we're
testing H naught mu equal to 30,
versus Ha u greater than 30.
And then divided by the standard
error of the mean where now we're,
we have square root 16 rather than
square root 100 and recall s was 10.
This test statistic how many estimated
standard errors from the hypothesized mean
the sample mean is follows a T
distribution with 15 degrees of freedom in
this specific case.
So under the null hypothesis,
the probability that is larger
than the 95th percentile of T sis,
distribution is 5%.
So we need to calculate that 5th
percentile of the T distribution.
This can be done with qt .95 and
15 degrees of freedom,
which works out to be 1.7531.
Our test statistic,
if we actually plug in the ten
in our x bar of 32, works out to be 0.8.
And so, we're failing to reject,
because 0.8 is smaller than 1.75.
Let's also go through a two sided
test Suppose that we wanted redre,
reject an hypothesis, if in fact
the mean was too large or too small.
This doesn't make a lot of sense in
our specific scientific setting,
because we were specifically
interested in whether or
not the, this particular population
of obese subjects had a or
respiratory disturbance index larger
than 30, our reference value.
However, it is often the case
in scientific settings,
a two sided test is demanded regardless of
whether or not it makes scientific sense.
So, it's, it's important to understand
how to do two sided tests and the fact
that there are some instances where you
are mandated to do a two sided test.
Even though it doesn't necessarily
make that much sense to
consider the other side.
So we want to reject, in this case,
if we were to do a two sided test,
we want to reject whether or
not mu is different from 30.
So, in other words,
we'll reject if our test statistic
is either too large or too small.
In this case because our test statistic is
positive we only need to
consider the large side.
What does change, however,
is in order to get that 5% in
a way that allows our test statistic
to be too large or too small.
We need to split the probability as
2.5% in either tail of the distribution,
be it the t distribution for small
sample sizes, or the z distribution for
large sample sizes.
So now, instead of the qt at 0.95,
we're going to get to do qt at 0.975.
Again, with 15 degrees of freedom.
And so we want to reject if our
test statistic is larger than this.
Right, so let me draw an example
of our t distribution.
This will be the point qt .975,
with 15 degrees of freedom.
It would be 2.5% in that field.
And this is the point qt .025
with 15 degrees of freedom and
that's 2.5% in that tail,
that point right there.
So we going to reject, if our test
statistic is larger than this guy or
smaller than this guy.
However, because the lower quartile is
the negative of the positive quartile,
we can always say that's the same thing
as taking the absolute value of our test
statistic and
rejecting if it is too large.
That point is made right here.
So, in this case we failed to
reject the one-sided test.
And now in this slide we're showing that
we failed to reject a two sided test.
However, I think you'll probably all
ready noticed that because we've moved
further out into the tails of the t
distribution with our rejection that
if you fail to reject the one sided test
then you will have also failed to reject
the two sided test.
Usually we don't calculate the rejection
region and perform the hypothesis
test in the formal manner in which we have
gone through in these slides by hand.
Instead, we usually pass the data
to a function like t.test.
And, it outputs all
the relevant statistics for us,
for us to understand what's
going on with the test.
What's interesting is we
already know how to do this,
because we've used t.test in order
to perform confidence intervals.
We just haven't gone through the output
to understand what it's doing for a test.
Let's look at, in the using R package,
the data father.son.
And we'd like to test whether
the population of sons' height
was equivalent to the popsol,
population mean of father's heights.
Now the observations
here were paired it was
one son's measurement to one
father's measurement, and so on.
So it's, in this case we're
going to take the difference and
we want to test whether the difference in
the heights is zero, or it's non zero.
You do that with t.test,
and you can either pass
the difference directly to the function
t.test or you could pass it the two
vectors and
then add the argument paired equals true.
It gives you your t
statistic right here 11.79.
Its gives you your degrees of
freedom right here, 1,077, so
we had exactly 1,078 pairs that
we took the difference of.
Now 11 is a quite large t statistic, so we
reject the null hypothesis in this case.
Also notice that the degrees
of freedom are quite large,
so the distinction between a t-test and
a z-test in this case is irrelevant.
It very nicely gives us the t confidence
interval automatically, when we do t.test.
It's useful almost always to
look at the confidence interval
in addition to the output of the test.
Simply because the confidence interval
bridges this gap between statistical
significance and
practical significance quite nicely.
You can see whether the range of values
in the confidence interval are of
practical significance or
not because its expressed in the units
of the data that you're interested in.
Speaking of confidence intervals,
in the previous couple of lectures
when we covered confidence intervals,
we investigated whether or not a
hypothesized mean was supported by looking
at whether ort not it was in
the confidence interval or not.
If it was in the confidence interval,
then it'd seem to be
a supported value of the mean.
If it was outside, it was not.
You might wonder,
how does that procedure compare to
formally performing the hypothesis test.
Say, for example, the hypothesis
test that the mean is equal to
a specific value versus not
equal to a specific value.
Consider the previous example.
We were interested in whether or not,
father's and son heights were equal.
We got the answer that, no, they weren't
as far as the hypnosis test was concerned.
We also got the answer that
the interval did not contain zero.
You might be wondering whether or not
those two statements could ever disagree
and it turns out that no they can't.
Checking whether or
not munot is in the interval
is identical to performing the two
sided hypothesis test with the caveat
that the alpha that you use for
the interval, for the hypothesis test.
Has to be equal to 1 minus alpha for
the confidence interval.
In other words if you
construct a 95% interval, and
just look for whether or
not munot is in that interval and
failed to reject if it's in that interval
and reject if it's outside the interval.
That is the same as performing that
hypotheses test with an alpha level,
with a type point error of exactly alpha.
This is stated here in
this slide by saying
the confidence interval can be constructed
as the set of all possible values for
which you fail to reject
a null hypothesis.
Now, with all the infrastructure
that we have in place,
both understanding confidence intervals,
and understanding hypothesis tests for
one group, two group intervals should be a
very minor extension of what we're doing.
Basically, the rejection rules are the
same, and we want to now test whether or
not the mean for one group.
Is equal to the mean for another group.
We have the same set of alternatives that
mew one say is greater than mew two,
that mew one is less than mew two
versus mew one is not equal to mew two.
Our test statistics will
always be the same.
It will be the estimate X
bar one minus X bar two.
Minus the hypothesized mean.
In this case, the hypothesized mean
difference, Mu 1 minus Mu 2 is zero,
divided by the standard error of the mean.
We'll go through an example
to illustrate this.
Recall it the chickWeight data.
Recall it the chickWeight data that
we looked at in the last lecture.
We're going to do library(datasets),
data(ChickWeight), and then remember we
needed the reshape2 package to get
it in the format that we wanted.
Specifically the chick weight data
is such that it's like this: chick,
one, one, one, one, one, and
then it has a bunch of measurements.
At for that chick at several different
times, so this is a so called long format.
We wanted a wide format so
we're going to use the dcast function.
And then I, I want to rename it and
then I want to define a variable that
is weight gain basically time21,
minus time0.
In this case, almost all the chicks
are about exactly the same weight at time0
relative to their time21.
So this doesn't make that
big of a difference, but
I also wanted to show people
this mutate function,
which makes it very easy to add
a variable to a data frame.
So I grab the subset of the diets in 1 and
4 in this specific case.
The reason being that this tilde
operator in the t.test function requires
that the predictor variable, diet,
in this case only have exactly two levels.
So, it's because I want to compare one and
four, I did it that way.
I'm going to say paired equals false,
because in this case, the chicks that
received diet one were a totally separate
set of chicks than those that received
diet four, so it wouldn't make an, sense
to treat them as if they were paired.
Chick one from diet one has nothing
to do with chick one from diet four.
I am assuming that equal variances in
the in the last lecture we concluded that
equal variance maybe isn't the best
thing to do in this particular data set,
so I would suggest that you try on your
own running this example with var equal as
FALSE to see how it change, changes.
In this case our t statistic, which is the
estimate, the difference in the average
weight gain between the two diets minus
the hypothesized value, in this case 0.
Whenever you're doing two groups, unless
you specify a hypothesized difference in
the means it's going to assume that your
interested in testing whether the means
are equal under the null hypothesis or
different under the alternative.
The degrees of freedom is 23, those
are the same degrees of freedom n1 plus n2
minus 2 that we covered in
the confidence interval lecture, or
if you're doing the unequal
variance degrees of freedom,
you might get a fractional
degrees of freedom.
So the same thing we covered in
the confidence interval lecture.
And it gives you your confidence
interval here again which
is always good to look at whenever
you're performing a hypothesis test.
In the next lecture we'll talk
about what a P value is and
how it makes doing these kinds of tests
fairly, a fairly easy thing to do.
So our T statistic which calculates
how many estimated standard errors our
difference in means is from the hypothesis
me, hypothesized mean that's negative 2.7.
That's pretty far out in
the tail of a t distribution or
a normal distribution, and so
it's well below our cut-off value.
We don't actually explicitly t, get
a cut-off value in this particular case.
Because we know that it's pretty low and
after we go through the p value lecture
we'll be able to tell immediately
that we know that this would be rejected
if that was a 5% level test we'll,
we'll know without having to actually
specifically calculate the t quant.
Let's go through a fairly simple example
of hypothesis testing
that's not a normal or a t.
So remember this problem where your friend
had eight children seven of which were
girls and you wanted to evaluate
that with respect to ID
coin flipping thinking that maybe genders
from a couple are like a coin flip.
And you're interested in how much
evidence is this, that the gend,
genders are iid coin, fair coin flips
between boys and girls for this couple.
So you want to test the known hypothesis
that p, the probability of the girl,
is 0.5 versus the hypothesis
that its greater than 0.5
because you're a little skeptical.
This, this, your friend had eight,
seven girls out of eight children.
So if you were to set up a hypothesis
test what would be the number of girls
that the couple could have in order for
the probability of having that many or
more the 5% under the,
under the null hypothesis of a fair coin?
Well, if we set up a rejection region, so
in other words we're going to reject
the null hypothesis if the couple had
anywhere between zero and eight girls,
well of course we'd always reject.
If If we set up the rejection region, so
that we're going to reject if a couple
have one to eight girls, well it's
still not 5%, It's, it's almost one.
Okay, if we keep following down what we
see is let's say seven girls, what we'd
see is that if we set up or rejection
region as being seven or eight girls,
and the probability of rejecting under
the null hypothesis is just under 5%.
Notice we can't get it exactly equal to 5%
because there's a jump if we set the rate
rejection review to be six or higher,
it's 14% if we set it to be seven or
eight, it's 3%.
If we set it to be eight, in other words
you would only reject the hypothesis
of a fair point, if, in fact,
the coin came up heads all eight times,
well, then you would have
a type 1 error rate of .004.
Let's give a couple of notes
about this specific test.
Now, what we see is that the closest
rejection region is seven and eight.
And the fact
that your friend had seven girls means
that we reject the null hypothesis.
But we note it's also impossible to get
an exact 5% level test in this case, but
that's just because of
the discreteness of the binomial.
For larger sample sizes, you could
have just done a normal approximation.
You could have counted the coin flip as an
average, treated it as if it was Gaussian,
but, but you already know how to do this.
For the two sided test, it's not obvious.
I, in, in this case,
if you wanted to test whether p was
0.5 versus different from 0.5, and
we'll talk about a way to do
two-sided tests in the next lecture.
And, I would say I think this gets
a little bit easier when we think about it
in terms of p values.
So if this example is
a little confusing to you.
Wait til you hear the p value lecture.
I think it'll, it'll make it
a little clearer the exact binomial
poisson conflicts or, or
test will be a little bit easier.
I would however say, it is interesting
that if you can do a two sided test for
a binomial or poisson,
than you can invert those tests.
You can think of the values for which you
would fail to reject a known hypothesis
and generated exact confidence
interval for the poisson parameter and
the binomial parameter, and
that is exactly how they get those exact
intervals in R where you
don't do an asymptotic or
central limit theorem type approximation
but you get an exact binomial interval
they're, they're inverting a two
sided hypothesis test of this sort.
So I look forward to, next time,
talking about P values,
where I think we'll solidify
some of these con, concepts.
And also make the performance of our
hypothesis test a little bit easier.